---
title: Android OS
permalink: /scam-hub/permalink/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
third_nav_title: ScamShield
---
<h3>Setting up ScamShield for Android</h3><hr><h4>Download ScamShield Android</h4><p>Download ScamShield from the Google Play Store by clicking on the button below, or searching for ScamShield on the Play Store.</p><p></p><p>You can also download ScamShield by scanning this QR code:** Do not download ScamShield outside the official Play Store</p><h4>Enable Access</h4><p>Allow the necessary permissions ScamShield asks for; these are required for the app to work correctly:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Set ScamShield as the default caller ID &amp; spam app</p></li><li><p>Allow access to your contacts</p></li><li><p>Allow access to make and manage phone calls</p></li><li><p>Allow access to send and view SMS messages</p></li></ul><p></p><h4>Turn on Notifications</h4><p>You can send a test notification to your phone, to make sure you are able to receive alerts from ScamShield.</p><p></p><h4>Done!</h4><p>If you come across other scam messages, you can report them using Scamshield’s in-app reporting function.</p><p></p><p></p><h3>Set up ScamShield Android to block scam calls and detect scam SMSes</h3><hr><h4>How can I tell if ScamShield is working on my Android phone?</h4><p></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>When you receive a scam SMS from an <strong>unknown number</strong>, you will receive a <strong>push notification</strong> from ScamShield informing you that it is a scam message.</p></li><li><p>When ScamShield detects a scam message, you don’t need to report it as ScamShield automatically reports it to the authorities to ensure your safety.</p></li><li><p>ScamShield also works in the background silently to block scam calls.</p></li></ul><h4>What should I report to ScamShield?</h4><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>To help us protect you better, report any scams that we may have missed detecting.</p></li></ul><h4>How does it work on my Android phone?</h4><ul><li><p>The app filters incoming calls and SMSes from <strong>unknown numbers, including overseas numbers.</strong> ScamShield uses a combination of an on-device algorithm and information provided by the Singapore Police Force (SPF), such as blacklisted numbers linked to scams, to determine if a call or SMS is a scam.</p></li><li><p>When you receive an SMS from an unknown number, ScamShield will determine if the SMS is a scam using an on-device algorithm.</p></li><li><p>For Android users, you will receive a notification from ScamShield informing you that the app has detected a scam message.</p></li></ul><h4>Your privacy is important to us</h4><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>For your privacy, ScamShield <strong>does not filter calls and SMSes from contacts that you have saved on your phone.</strong></p></li></ul><h4>Feedback</h4><p>For any queries, questions or feedback, please contact us here: <a href="https://go.gov.sg/scamshield-feedback" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank"><u>ScamShield Feedback</u></a></p><p><br></p>