---
title: Apple iOS
permalink: /scam-hub/scamshield/permalink/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
third_nav_title: ScamShield
---
<h4>Download ScamShield iOS</h4><p>Download ScamShield from the Apple App Store by clicking on the button below or searching for ScamShield on the App Store:</p><p></p><p><br>You can also download ScamShield by scanning this QR code:</p><h4>To enable call blocking</h4><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Open <strong>Settings</strong></p></li><li><p>Tap <strong>Phone</strong></p></li><li><p>Tap <strong>Call Blocking &amp; Identification</strong></p></li><li><p>Enable <strong>Scamshield</strong></p></li></ul><p></p><h4>To enable SMS filtering</h4><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Open <strong>Settings</strong></p></li><li><p>Tap <strong>Messages</strong></p></li><li><p>Tap <strong>Unknown &amp; Spam</strong></p></li><li><p>Enable <strong>Scamshield</strong></p></li></ul><p></p><h4>Done!</h4><p>If you come across other scam messages, you can report them using Scamshield’s in-app reporting <a href="https://apps.apple.com/sg/app/scamshield/id1497144087" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">function.</a>Download ScamShield iOS</p><p>Download ScamShield from the Apple App Store by clicking on the button below or searching for ScamShield on the App Store:</p><p></p><p><br>You can also download ScamShield by scanning this QR code:</p><h4>To enable call blocking</h4><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Open <strong>Settings</strong></p></li><li><p>Tap <strong>Phone</strong></p></li><li><p>Tap <strong>Call Blocking &amp; Identification</strong></p></li><li><p>Enable <strong>Scamshield</strong></p></li></ul><p></p><h4>To enable SMS filtering</h4><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Open <strong>Settings</strong></p></li><li><p>Tap <strong>Messages</strong></p></li><li><p>Tap <strong>Unknown &amp; Spam</strong></p></li><li><p>Enable <strong>Scamshield</strong></p></li></ul><p></p><h4>Done!</h4><p>If you come across other scam messages, you can report them using Scamshield’s in-app reporting function.</p><p></p><p></p><p><a href="https://apps.apple.com/sg/app/scamshield/id1497144087" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">How</a> can I tell if ScamShield is working on my iOS phone?</p><p></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>When you receive a scam SMS from an <strong>unknown number</strong> that is determined to be a scam, ScamShield filters the messages to a junk SMS folder.</p></li><li><p>You’ll be able to view messages filtered by ScamShield by going into your Junk Messages and seeing the label <strong>‘Filtered by ScamShield’</strong>.</p></li><li><p>By default, messages in the Junk folder are deleted after 30 days.</p></li><li><p>ScamShield also works in the background silently to block scam calls.</p></li><li><p>You don’t need to report scam messages that have already been filtered by ScamShield.</p></li></ul><h4>What should I report to ScamShield?</h4><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>To help us protect you better, report any scams that we may have missed filtering.</p></li></ul><h4>How does it work on my iOS phone?</h4><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>The app filters incoming calls and SMSes from <strong>unknown numbers, including overseas numbers</strong>. ScamShield uses a combination of an on-device algorithm and information provided by the Singapore Police Force (SPF), such as blacklisted numbers linked to scams, to determine if a call or SMS is a scam.</p></li><li><p>When you receive an SMS from an unknown number, ScamShield will determine if the SMS is a scam using an on-device algorithm.</p></li><li><p>For iOS, it filters the messages to a junk SMS folder.</p></li></ul><h4>Your privacy is important to us</h4><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>For your privacy, ScamShield <strong>does not filter calls and SMSes from contacts that you have saved on your phone.</strong></p></li></ul><h4>Feedback</h4><p>For any queries, questions or feedback, please contact us here: <a href="https://go.gov.sg/scamshield-feedback" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank"><u>ScamShield Feedback</u></a></p>